# Reproducibility

DQCsim provides various mechanisms that can be used to reproduce a previously
performed simulation. This is intended primarily for debugging. Say, for
instance, that the simulation returns a result that you were not expecting,
while you did'nt have the logging verbosity set high enough to debug it.
Without a way to precisely reproduce the simulation run, you may never get the
same result again if it was due to random chance!

## Random seed

DQCsim provides each plugin with a pseudorandom number generator that is
guaranteed to return the same results every time for a specific random seed.
By default, the random seed is randomly generated using entropy from the system
clock, but you can also specify it manually to get deterministic simulations.

## Reproduction files

More powerful than simply setting a random seed are reproduction files. A
reproduction file is a YAML description of a previously performed simulation,
containing all information needed to reproduce the simulation under normal
circumstances. Sometimes DQCsim may need some help from the user, for instance
when the simulation is to be reproduced on another computer, but in general it
should work out of the box.

The command-line interface allows you to reproduce a simulation either exactly
or as if you were reproducing a physical experiment. The seed specified in the
reproduction file is ignored in the latter case.

When you run a simulation using the command-line interface, a reproduction file
will be generated by default. In this case, the reproduction file is ultimately
little more than the options you specified on the command. However, it is
usually also possible to generate a reproduction file when a host program is
involved. In this case, DQCsim will record the functions it calls on the host
interface into the reproduction file, such that the command-line interface can
reproduce the simulation later. This takes any non-deterministic behavior of
the host program out of the equation.
